# Relationship-Between-Psychological-and-Job-Factors
This repository contains the results of a comprehensive study analyzing the relationship between psychological factors (self-esteem, self-mastery, family attitudes) and job-related factors (job satisfaction, wages) using data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 1979 (NLSY79) and its subsequent waves from 1986 to 2020. The study investigates whether psychological attributes of parents, such as self-esteem, impact their children's psychological outcomes and income, and explores the effect of family attitudes on gender roles across generations.
The cross-sectional analysis examines correlations and mediation effects, revealing significant relationships between parents' and children's self-esteem and self-mastery and their impact on income. Key findings include partial mediation effects between parents' self-esteem and children's self-esteem on income, and significant correlations between family attitudes across generations. 
A panel data analysis was also initiated to examine the relationships over a period of time. Hausman test signalled the presence of potential endogeneity among the variables. Arellano-Bond and system GMM models were attempted to employ in order to control for that endogeneity. But probably to the lack of consistency of observations for all the individuals over the period of time, those models could not be used.

I do not own any of the datasets and this entire thing was done as a freelance project.
